Refine Acp diff's relation to WAC (#201)
solid/authorization-panel: proposals/wac-acp-diff-story.md

```Turtle
<> :authorizes _:a1, <personal#Rule1> .
_:a1 a acl:Authorization;
   acl:agentClass foaf:Agent ;
   acl:mode acl:Read .
```

Note that the `acl:accessTo` relation is missing here. But it can easily be inferred. Any agent - be it a client or the server Guard - following the `Link: <card.acl>;rel=acl` header from the original resource `<card>`, can then follow the `:authorizes` links and so deduce the following 2 statements (see the illustration below)

 1. for the bnode `_:a1`

```Turtle
_:a1 acl:accessTo <card> .
```

Here deduction means quite simply: to create a new graph with the above triple added to it. Once that is done, the same `AclShape` written up above holds.

 2. for the `<presonal#Rule1>` 

As above after dereferencing the `<personal#Rule1>` the same principle applies. 
If the document `<personal>` contains the following triples:

```Turtle
<#Rule1> acl:agent <card#i>;
    acl:mode acl:Read, acl:Write .
```

then the client having followed the `Link: <card.acl>;rel=acl` header from `<card>` 

> and followed the `:authorizes` link to `<personal>` would be able to deduce the triple

Reviewer: If you define `owl:propertyChainAxiom ( acl:accessControl :authorizes )` I think we would need `Link: <card.acl>;rel="http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#accessControl"` rather than `Link: <card.acl>;rel="acl"`

Author: Ok, I fixed that, and hope to have added a ShEx for WAC+:authorizes (it may well be wrong)

  a acl:AccessControl ;
  acp:apply </myAccessPolicies#bart-copies-my-homework> .
```

## Minimal Extension to WAC enabling the same features

> Another way of getting the same effect as ACP is to extend WAC with a `:authorizes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another way of getting the same effect as ACP is to extend WAC with an `:authorizes`
```

> relation defined as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
relation defined as &mdash;
```

```Turtle
acl:accessTo owl:inverseOf [
        owl:propertyChainAxiom ( acl:accessControl :authorizes )
      ] .
```

> (We leave the namespace for `:authorizes` open for the moment as it could be in the wac, acp, or another namespace).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(We leave the namespace for `:authorizes` open for the moment as it could be in the wac, the acp, or another namespace).
```

> This would allow one to place rules in different resources without needing to specify the `wac:accessTo` relation as in ACP. So for example, the access control resource associated with Tim Berners-Lee's WebID Profile could contain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This would allow one to place rules in different resources without needing to specify the `wac:accessTo` relation as in ACP. For example, the access control resource associated with Tim Berners-Lee's WebID Profile could contain &mdash;
```

```Turtle
<> :authorizes _:a1, <personal#Rule1> .
_:a1 a acl:Authorization;
   acl:agentClass foaf:Agent ;
   acl:mode acl:Read .
```

> Note that the `acl:accessTo` relation is missing here. But it can easily be inferred. Any agent - be it a client or the server Guard - following the `Link: <card.acl>;rel="http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#accessControl"` header from the original resource `<card>`, can then follow the `:authorizes` links and so deduce the following 2 statements (see the illustration below)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the `acl:accessTo` relation is missing here, but it can easily be inferred. Any agent &mdash; be it a client or the server Guard &mdash; following the `Link: <card.acl>;rel="http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#accessControl"` header from the original resource `<card>`, can then follow the `:authorizes` links and so deduce the following 2 statements (see the illustration below):
```

>  1. for the bnode `_:a1`
> 
> ```Turtle
> _:a1 acl:accessTo <card> .
> ```
> 
> Here deduction means quite simply: to create a new graph with the above triple added to it. Once that is done, the same `AclShape` written up above holds of that graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 1. for the bnode `_:a1`

    ```Turtle
    _:a1 acl:accessTo <card> .
    ```

    Here, deduction means, quite simply: <em>to create a new graph with the above triple added to it.</em> Once that is done, the same `AclShape` written up above holds for that graph.
```

>  2. for the `<personal#Rule1>`
> 
> As above after dereferencing the `<personal#Rule1>` the same principle applies.
> If the document `<personal>` contains the following triples:
> 
> ```Turtle
> <#Rule1> acl:agent <card#i>;
>     acl:mode acl:Read, acl:Write .
> ```
> 
> then the client having followed the `Link: <card.acl>;rel="...#accessControl"` header from `<card>`
> and followed the `:authorizes` link to `<personal>` would be able to deduce the triple
> 
> ```Turtle
> <#Rule1> acl:accessTo <card> .
> ```
> 
> and so that `AclShape` would still be valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 2. for the `<personal#Rule1>`

    As above after dereferencing the `<personal#Rule1>` the same principle applies.
    If the document `<personal>` contains the following triples &mdash;

    ```Turtle
    <#Rule1> acl:agent <card#i>;
        acl:mode acl:Read, acl:Write .
    ```

    &mdash; then the client, having followed the `Link: <card.acl>;rel="...#accessControl"` header from `<card>`
    and followed the `:authorizes` link to `<personal>`, would be able to deduce the triple &mdash;

    ```Turtle
    <#Rule1> acl:accessTo <card> .
    ```

    &mdash; so that `AclShape` would still be valid.
```

We thus get the same effect of allowing rules to be written and referred to, without those rules needing to specify in advance all the resources for which it is valid.

> The above layout is illustrated in the following diagram. Double lines represent `Link` relation headers, the solid lines represent relations explicitly written out, and the dotted lines represent inferred relations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above layout is illustrated in the following diagram. Double lines represent `Link` relation headers; the solid lines represent relations explicitly written out; and the dotted lines represent inferred relations.
```

![Illustration of :authorizes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/124506/114870725-cc4d4b80-9df8-11eb-829e-a90d1de120d6.jpg)

We seem to have two AclShapes that are compatible.

>  1. The current `AclShape` defined above would allow clients working with the inferred graph to continue working even on WAC deployed as above. They would find the `acl:accessTo` relation in the inferred graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 1. The current `AclShape`, as defined above, would allow clients working with the inferred graph to continue working even on WAC deployed as above. They would find the `acl:accessTo` relation in the inferred graph.
```

>  2. Newer Clients could use a different Shape, taking into account the following of the right `Link` header. This Shex would be
> 
> ```shex
> PREFIX acl: <http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#>
> 
> <WacLinkHeaderShape> {
>    # Link header shape
>    (acl:accessControl <WacAuthzShape> )
> }
> 
> <WacAuthzShape> {
>    ( :authorizes <AclShape2> )
> }
> ```
> 
> Where `<AclShape2>` is `<AclShape>` minus the `acl:accessTo` and `acl:accessToClass` relations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 2. Newer Clients could use a different Shape, taking into account the following of the right `Link` header. This Shex would be &mdash;

    ```shex
    PREFIX acl: <http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#>

    <WacLinkHeaderShape> {
       # Link header shape
       (acl:accessControl <WacAuthzShape> )
    }

    <WacAuthzShape> {
       ( :authorizes <AclShape2> )
    }
    ```

    &mdash; where `<AclShape2>` is `<AclShape>` minus the `acl:accessTo` and `acl:accessToClass` relations.
```

> As we see though, this does not mean that these two relations need to be removed from the ACL ontology. They are the first step to understanding access control, and will very likely be useful for applications such as Linked Data Notifications, and can easily be inferred.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we see, though, this does not mean that these two relations need to be removed from the ACL ontology. They are the first step to understanding access control, and will very likely be useful for applications such as Linked Data Notifications, and can easily be inferred.
```

The above layout is illustrated in the following diagram. Double lines represent `Link` relation headers, the solid lines represent relations explicitly written out, and the dotted lines represent inferred relations.

![Illustration of :authorizes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/124506/114870725-cc4d4b80-9df8-11eb-829e-a90d1de120d6.jpg)

> 

Reviewer 3: changes agentClass from pointing to an AuthenticatedAgent to an Agent

Author: yes. The AgentClass was a relic of another discussion. In this place it made the example a bit unrealistic and brought nothing of interest to the example.
